+++
title = "Molecular architecture of the developing mouse brain"
date = "2021-08-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = [
"Gioele La Manno", 
"Kimberly Siletti", 
"Alessandro Furlan", 
"Daniel Gyllborg", 
"Elin Vinsland", 
"Alejandro Mossi Albiach", 
"Christoffer Mattsson Langseth", 
"Irina Khven", 
"Alex R. Lederer", 
"Lisa M. Dratva", 
"Anna Johnsson", 
"Mats Nilsson", 
"Peter Lönnerberg",
"Sten Linnarsson"
]

# Publication type.
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Nature* 596 (7870) 92-96, Nature Research"
publication_short = "**Nature**"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The mammalian brain develops through a complex interplay of spatial cues generated by diffusible morphogens, cell–cell interactions and intrinsic genetic programs that result in probably more than a thousand distinct cell types. A complete understanding of this process requires a systematic characterization of cell states over the entire spatiotemporal range of brain development. The ability of single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics to reveal the molecular heterogeneity of complex tissues has therefore been particularly powerful in the nervous system. Previous studies have explored development in specific brain regions, the whole adult brain and even entire embryos. Here we report a comprehensive single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the embryonic mouse brain between gastrulation and birth. We identified almost eight hundred cellular states that describe a developmental program for the functional elements of the brain and its enclosing membranes, including the early neuroepithelium, region-specific secondary organizers, and both neurogenic and gliogenic progenitors. We also used in situ mRNA sequencing to map the spatial expression patterns of key developmental genes. Integrating the in situ data with our single-cell clusters revealed the precise spatial organization of neural progenitors during the patterning of the nervous system."
abstract_short = "We report a comprehensive single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the embryonic mouse brain between gastrulation and birth. We identified almost eight hundred cellular states that describe a developmental program for the functional elements of the brain and its enclosing membranes."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = "developmentatlas.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-03775-x.pdf"
url_custom = [{name = "Supplementary", url = "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-03775-x#supplementary-information"}]
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_source = "#"


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "developmentatlas.jpg"
caption = "A map of the brain"

+++
