+++
title = "Induction of functional dopamine neurons from human astrocytes in vitro and mouse astrocytes in a Parkinson's disease model"
date = "2017-05-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = [ "Pia Rivetti di Val Cervo, Roman A Romanov, Giada Spigolon, Débora Masini, Elisa Martín-Montañez, Enrique M Toledo, <u>Gioele La Manno</u>, Michael Feyder, Christian Pifl, Yi-Han Ng, Sara Padrell Sánchez, Sten Linnarsson, Marius Wernig, Tibor Harkany, Gilberto Fisone, Ernest Arenas"]

# Publication type.
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Nature Biotechnology*"
publication_short = "**Nature Biotechnology**"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Cell replacement therapies for neurodegenerative disease have focused on transplantation of the cell types affected by the pathological process. Here we describe an alternative strategy for Parkinson's disease in which dopamine neurons are generated by direct conversion of astrocytes. Using three transcription factors, NEUROD1, ASCL1 and LMX1A, and the microRNA miR218, collectively designated NeAL218, we reprogram human astrocytes in vitro, and mouse astrocytes in vivo, into induced dopamine neurons (iDANs). Reprogramming efficiency in vitro is improved by small molecules that promote chromatin remodeling and activate the TGFβ, Shh and Wnt signaling pathways. The reprogramming efficiency of human astrocytes reaches up to 16%, resulting in iDANs with appropriate midbrain markers and excitability. In a mouse model of Parkinson's disease, NeAL218 alone reprograms adult striatal astrocytes into iDANs that are excitable and correct some aspects of motor behavior in vivo, including gait impairments. With further optimization, this approach may enable clinical therapies for Parkinson's disease by delivery of genes rather than cells."
abstract_short = "Using three transcription factors, NEUROD1, ASCL1 and LMX1A, and the microRNA miR218, collectively designated NeAL218, we reprogram human astrocytes in vitro, and mouse astrocytes in vivo, into induced dopamine neurons (iDANs)"

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.nature.com/articles/nbt.3835.pdf"
#url_custom = [{name = "Supplementary", url = "http://example.org"}]
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_source = "#"


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
